Message-ID: <18484440.1075844264655.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 1 Jun 2001 04:18:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: margo.reyna@enron.com
To: richard.shapiro@enron.com, sue.nord@enron.com
Subject: FCC Chairman Powell and Wall Street Analysts
Cc: elizabeth.linnell@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: elizabeth.linnell@enron.com
X-From: Margo Reyna
X-To: Richard Shapiro, Sue Nord
X-cc: Elizabeth Linnell
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Richard_Shapiro_June2001\Notes Folders\Notes inbox
X-Origin: SHAPIRO-R
X-FileName: rshapiro.nsf

Rick and Sue,

I exhausted many resources in my attempt to get this information (Enron 
Investor Relations, our PR group, newswires, Wall Street websites, etc.).  I 
found nothing, and then called the TR Daily editorial staff.  Here's what I 
learned:

Powell met with Frank Governali on May 30 to discus Powell's 
interest/determination in promoting competition in the CLEC sector.  
Governali is an analyst w/ Goldman, Sachs.  Accompanying Governali were 6-8 
of his largest clients, primarily pension and/or mutual fund managers.  The 
editorial staff member I spoke with indicated that the names of the fund 
managers are typically not disclosed publicly, and TR does not know their 
identities.

I was also told that Powell met with Merrill Lynch analyst Ken Hexter and 
possibly Adam Quinton (heavily active in the telecom industry) on 
May 31.  The topic was the same as the May 30 meeting w/ Goldman, Sachs.  
Another meeting is planned for the near future (perhaps today?) with Lehman 
Bros.  The analyst is not definitively known, but is suspected to be Blake 
Bath.

I hope this has been somewhat helpful.  I will watch the press for any 
additional information in the coming days and will forward anything that I 
find to you.  Please let me know if you need anything further - and keep the 
inquiries coming - I enjoy the challenge!

Margo Reyna
Regulatory Analyst
Enron Corp., Government Affairs
Phone:  713-853-9191